Update Open SGID article (#1397)
agrc/gis.utah.gov: _posts/2020-05-04-introducing-open-sgid.md

<div class="flex flex--center pop" style="max-width:50%;justify-content:center">
  <h4 style="margin-bottom:0;padding-top:0"><strong>Database Platform</strong>: PostgresSQL</h4>
  <h4 style="margin-top:0;margin-bottom:0;padding-top:0"><strong>Instance</strong>: opensgid.agrc.utah.gov</h4>
  <h4 style="margin-top:0;margin-bottom:0;padding-top:0"><strong>Username</strong>: agrc <strong>Password</strong>: agrc</h4>
</div>

The timing could not be more perfect with the sudden increase in teleworking, which is not expected to wane any time soon, especially here in Utah with the implementation of the [Governor’s teleworking initiative](https://governor.utah.gov/2019/07/16/state-of-utah-introduces-teleworking-program-for-employees/). Not only does the Open SGID benefit Utahns, but it also signals the return to a truly publicly available, direct database connection that can be utilized on a multitude of GIS platforms. Furthermore, it initiates the sunsetting of the state network-only SGID10 database, although both databases (i.e., the Open SGID and the SGID10) will run in parallel for some time to allow users to transition and adapt to the Open SGID.

> The new tools and processes developed collectively by AGRC staff to accomplish the Open SGID, as well as the new and improved [Open Data site](https://opendata.gis.utah.gov/), are numerous and worthy of their own blogpost - perhaps some foreshadowing there. However, it is worth noting that a paradigm shift led to the creation of a new internal SGID database that serves as the sole editing environment and data source for the Open SGID and the Open Data site. Automated processes provide nightly updates to both data resources to maintain consistency between them, so you can be sure that you are utilizing the most current data available.

Author: ```suggestion
The new tools and processes developed by AGRC staff to accomplish the Open SGID, as well as the new and improved [Open Data site](https://opendata.gis.utah.gov/), are numerous and worthy of their own blogpost---perhaps some foreshadowing there. In this post though, we'll note that a paradigm shift led to the creation of a new internal SGID database that serves as the sole editing environment and data source for the Open SGID and the Open Data site. Automated processes provide nightly updates to both data resources to maintain consistency between them, so you can be sure that you are utilizing the most current data available.
```

Author: Also, I'm wondering about the "accomplish" in the first sentence--Do we mean "develop" or something like that? Or maybe "manage"? etc.

Reviewer: Yes, I did mean "develop", but thought it came too closely on the heels of the previous "developed" in the sentence. Maybe the first one can be changed to "built", or something like that?

The new tools and processes developed collectively by AGRC staff to accomplish the Open SGID, as well as the new and improved [Open Data site](https://opendata.gis.utah.gov/), are numerous and worthy of their own blogpost - perhaps some foreshadowing there. However, it is worth noting that a paradigm shift led to the creation of a new internal SGID database that serves as the sole editing environment and data source for the Open SGID and the Open Data site. Automated processes provide nightly updates to both data resources to maintain consistency between them, so you can be sure that you are utilizing the most current data available.

> A nearly month-long beta testing period was helpful to identify several issues and some inherent differences between the Open SGID and the enterprise geodatabase of the SGID10 era. A [GitHub repository](https://github.com/agrc/open-sgid) was created as the primary source of information for the Open SGID and to catalog and address [these issues and differences](https://github.com/agrc/open-sgid/issues) with explanations or troubleshooting techniques.

Author: ```suggestion
A nearly month-long beta testing period was helpful to identify several issues and some inherent differences between the Open SGID and the enterprise geodatabase of the SGID10 era. A [GitHub repository](https://github.com/agrc/open-sgid) was created as the primary source of information for the Open SGID and to catalog and address [these issues and differences](https://github.com/agrc/open-sgid/issues) with explanations or troubleshooting techniques, or both. Tags are assigned to each issue to provide a level of categorization. 
```

#### Known Issues

> - [Tables do not contain metadata](https://github.com/agrc/open-sgid/issues/5)

Author: If you wanted to leave these as complete sentences, I'd recommend adding periods after each.

- [Fields with domains currently only display coded values](https://github.com/agrc/open-sgid/issues/7)

> #### Differences from SQL SDE Database

Author: You may want to consider making this list parallel with the Known Issues list. Basically, I'd say either make these bullets sentences (and add periods to all the bullets), or else make the previous list bullets not complete sentences. (Does that make sense?)

- [Table names and casing](https://github.com/agrc/open-sgid/issues/12)
- [Attribute names and casing](https://github.com/agrc/open-sgid/issues/13)
- [Null value sorting behavior](https://github.com/agrc/open-sgid/issues/6)

> - [ArcMap requires selection of unique ID field](https://github.com/agrc/open-sgid/issues/9)

Author: If you decide to go with incomplete sentences for these bullets, I'd still recommend making this one consistent with the others--so something like "Required selection of unique ID field in ArcMap"

Reviewer: I prefer incomplete sentences without periods for bullets

> Tags are assigned to each issue to provide a level of categorization. This repository will be an important reference for Open SGID users to search for information about known issues, and to submit new issues they encounter, so AGRC staff and the general user population can collectively offer feedback and solutions. Use the green New issue button on the [issues page](https://github.com/agrc/open-sgid/issues) to submit yours, and visit this page when you first come across a problem with, or question about, the Open SGID to see if others have already found a solution.

Author: ```suggestion
This repository will be an important reference for Open SGID users to search for information about known issues, and to submit new issues they encounter, so AGRC staff and the general user population can collectively offer feedback and solutions. Use the green _New issue_ button on the [issues page](https://github.com/agrc/open-sgid/issues) to submit yours, and visit this page when you first come across a problem with, or question about, the Open SGID to see whether others have already found a solution.
```

A nearly month-long beta testing period was helpful to identify several issues and some inherent differences between the Open SGID and the enterprise geodatabase of the SGID10 era. A [GitHub repository](https://github.com/agrc/open-sgid) was created as the primary source of information for the Open SGID and to catalog and address [these issues and differences](https://github.com/agrc/open-sgid/issues) with explanations or troubleshooting techniques, or both. Tags are assigned to each issue to provide a level of categorization. 

#### Known Issues

- [Tables do not contain metadata.](https://github.com/agrc/open-sgid/issues/5)
- [Fields with domains currently only display coded values.](https://github.com/agrc/open-sgid/issues/7)

#### Differences from SQL SDE Database

- [Table names and casing](https://github.com/agrc/open-sgid/issues/12)
- [Attribute names and casing](https://github.com/agrc/open-sgid/issues/13)
- [Null value sorting behavior](https://github.com/agrc/open-sgid/issues/6)
- [Required  selection of unique ID field in ArcMap](https://github.com/agrc/open-sgid/issues/9)

> If you come across a problem with or have a question about the Open SGID, visit the [issues page](https://github.com/agrc/open-sgid/issues). This repository not only acts as an important resource for Open SGID users to search for information about known issues, but also allows users to submit new issues they encounter, so AGRC staff and the general user population can collectively offer feedback and solutions. If you have not yet found an answer or solution to your topic, you can use the green _New issue_ button to submit it to the community.

Author: ```suggestion
If you come across a problem with or have a question about the Open SGID, visit the [issues page](https://github.com/agrc/open-sgid/issues). This repository not only acts as an important resource for Open SGID users to search for information about known issues, but also allows users to submit new issues they encounter, so AGRC staff and the general user population can collectively offer feedback and solutions. If you have not yet found an answer or solution to your topic, you can use the green _New issue_ button to submit it to the community. Also be sure to check out the [Open SGID Policy and Terms of Use page]({% /about/policy/open-sgid/ %}), which provides additional information. 

```

Author: Ps, not sure whether I did the link to the Terms page correctly, @steveoh . I tried!

> Although it may take some time to adjust to the PostgresSQL database format for traditional Esri clients that are familiar with the SQL SDE database, we view the Open SGID as an enhancement to AGRC’s data access points. It provides a direct SGID database connection that is no longer constrained to the Utah state government network, thereby living up to its name as a database that is truly open and accessible to all GIS platforms and users. We look forward to your feedback as both first-time and long-time SGID users utilize Utah’s most comprehensive and authoritative, open-source, geospatial database for your cartographic and analytical workflows.

Author: ```suggestion
Although it may take some time for traditional Esri clients who are familiar with the SQL SDE database to adjust to the PostgresSQL database format, we view the Open SGID as an enhancement to AGRC’s data access points. It provides a direct SGID database connection that is no longer constrained to the Utah state government network, thereby living up to its name as a database that is truly open and accessible to all GIS platforms and users. We look forward to your feedback as both first-time and long-time SGID users utilize Utah’s most comprehensive and authoritative open-source geospatial database for your cartographic and analytical workflows.
```

- [Null value sorting behavior](https://github.com/agrc/open-sgid/issues/6)
- [Required  selection of unique ID field in ArcMap](https://github.com/agrc/open-sgid/issues/9)

If you come across a problem with or have a question about the Open SGID, visit the [issues page](https://github.com/agrc/open-sgid/issues). This repository not only acts as an important resource for Open SGID users to search for information about known issues, but also allows users to submit new issues they encounter, so AGRC staff and the general user population can collectively offer feedback and solutions. If you have not yet found an answer or solution to your topic, you can use the green _New issue_ button to submit it to the community. Also be sure to check out the [Open SGID Policy and Terms of Use page]({% link about/policy/open-sgid/index.md %}), which provides additional information. 

> Although it may take some time for traditional Esri clients who are familiar with the SQL SDE database to adjust to the PostgresSQL database format, we view the Open SGID as an enhancement to AGRC’s data access points. It provides a direct SGID database connection that is no longer constrained to the Utah state government network, thereby living up to its name as a database that is truly open and accessible to all GIS platforms and users. We look forward to your feedback as both first-time and long-time SGID users utilize Utah’s most comprehensive and authoritative open-source geospatial database for your cartographic and analytical workflows.

Author: ```suggestion
### A Truly Open Database

Although it may take some time for traditional Esri clients who are familiar with the SQL SDE database to adjust to the PostgresSQL database format, we view the Open SGID as an enhancement to AGRC’s data access points. It provides a direct SGID database connection that is no longer constrained to the Utah state government network, thereby living up to its name as a database that is truly open and accessible to all GIS platforms and users. We look forward to your feedback as both first-time and long-time SGID users utilize Utah’s most comprehensive and authoritative open-source geospatial database for your cartographic and analytical workflows.
```

Reviewer 2: you can just make a commit to fix it, you don't have to use the suggestion since everyone already agreed on the change.
